Blog Post:Introduction: For this report I will be analyzing location data from both New York and Toronto to determine neighborhoods that are most similar between these two cities. This would be useful for individuals who are moving from one city to the other find a neighborhood that is most similar to their current neighborhood. While only New York and Toronto will be studied in this project, the functionality of this program can be adapted to other cities as well to create an application that helps users move between cities more comfortably by suggesting neighborhoods in their new city that they would be most comfortable living in. Data: I will be using Foursquare location data for neighborhoods in New York and Toronto for this project, as well as publicly available neighborhood data for the two cities from either Wikipedia (Toronto) or provided by Coursera (New York). Specifically, I will correlate each neighborhood in these two cities with their latitude and longitude values. I will then use these values with the Foursquare API to get relevant information on venues in each neighborhood. With a dataframe containing the number of each venue type in each neighborhood in each city, I will perform k-means clustering on the neighborhoods in both cities. This will give k different groups containing neighborhoods from both New York and Toronto, so it can be assumed that neighborhoods in each group share similar characteristics regardless of the city in which they are located. Methodology: To analyze the similarity of neighborhoods in both New York and Toronto, the first step was to import the data corresponding to the different neighborhoods in these two cities. For Toronto, the web scraper developed in week three was used to create a dataframe that contained all the postal codes, boroughs and neighborhoods in the city. Then the given ‘Geospatial coordinates.csv’ file was used to assign a latitude and longitude value to each neighborhood. For New York, this data was available from the week three lab. Next a function to get all the venues in a given neighborhood was defined using the Foursquare API, and was used to get all the venues corresponding to each neighborhood in both cities. These two dataframes were then combined and a column was added to identify the city each neighborhood was located in. Finally, k-means clustering was performed on the combined dataset to identify similar neighborhoods in both cities. This will allow users to find neighborhoods similar to their own in a new city. Results: The algorithm described in the methodology section produces a large dataset of all the neighborhoods in both New York and Toronto. This dataset can be easily divided based on cluster label to get five subsets of the whole dataset. Each of the neighborhoods in each subset is similar to the other neighborhoods in the subset, so a person looking to move would most likely want to move to a neighborhood grouped in the same subset as their current neighborhood.Discussion: The full implementation this algorithm would require some additional work, but everything can be easily done on the resulting dataset with cluster labels. The user would first find the label associated with their neighborhood by searching for their neighborhood within the dataset. Then the user would search for all neighborhoods with the same cluster label as their own neighborhood and that are located in the city other than their own. This would give them all neighborhoods in the other city that were identified as relatively similar to their own, hopefully facilitating their move to a new city.Conclusion: In conclusion, clustering the neighborhood data from two cities in this way makes it easy to similarities to be drawn between neighborhoods across cities. While only New York and Toronto were studied in this project, it would be relatively easy to extend the functionality of this algorithm to other cities as well. In order to do this, neighborhood data from these additional cities would need to be collected, either using a web scraper or from a centralized database. Once this data has been collected, it can be processed in a similar manner to the New York and Toronto data in this project.